Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Rd-03D Specification

Version V1.0.0

Copyright ©2023

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 1 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Document resume

Version

Date

Develop/revise content

Edition

Approve

V1.0.0

2023.08.31

First Edition

Pengfei Dong

Ning Guan

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 2 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Content
1. Product overview ......................................................................................................................4

1.1. Characteristic .................................................................................................................5
2. Main parameters ....................................................................................................................... 6

2.1. Static electricity requirement .........................................................................................6

2.2. Electrical characteristics ................................................................................................6

2.3. Radar sensing range .......................................................................................................7

2.4. Power .............................................................................................................................7

3. Appearance size ........................................................................................................................ 8

4. Pin definition ............................................................................................................................ 9

5. Schematic diagram ................................................................................................................. 10

6. Design guidance ..................................................................................................................... 11

6.1. Application guide circuit ............................................................................................. 11

6.2. Recommended PCB package size ............................................................................... 11

7. Precautions for radar installation ............................................................................................12

7.1. Installation environment requirements ........................................................................ 12

7.2. Installation mode and induction range ........................................................................ 13

7.3. Power Supply .............................................................................................................14

7.4. GPIO ............................................................................................................................15

8. Storage conditions .................................................................................................................. 16

9. Reflow welding curve diagram .............................................................................................. 16

10. Product package information ................................................................................................17

11. Contact us ............................................................................................................................. 17

Disclaimer and copyright notice .................................................................................................18

Notice ......................................................................................................................................... 18

Statement .................................................................................................................................... 19

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 3 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

1. Product overview

Rd-03D is a radar module developed by Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., LTD, which is

equipped with the S5KM312CL chip. S5KM312CL is an integrated microcontroller millimeter

wave sensor SoC based on FMCW radar transceiver technology. It works in 24 GHz K-band

with a maximum sweep bandwidth of 0.25GHz. The module adopts the advanced signal

processing technology of FMCW waveform and S5 series chip, combined with MCU's radar

signal processing and built-in intelligent positioning and tracking algorithm, can detect

multiple targets in the specified area and report the results in real time, and users can quickly

develop the corresponding target positioning and tracking products.

Rd-03D module accurately senses human body and regional motion state, carries intelligent

algorithm to realize motion trajectory recognition and tracking, and realizes speed

measurement and ranging of targets in the region, with faster recognition speed and lower

power consumption. The module can be configured quickly and is suitable for all kinds of

public publicity facilities. It can intelligently distinguish the human body in the form of

movement, micro-movement and rest, and control the switch of equipment. The module has

good resistance to external interference and is not affected by wireless signals such as WIFI.

Figure 1 S5KM312CL architecture diagram

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 4 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

1.1. Characteristic

 Adopts standard 1*4P-1.25mm socket connector

 Radar support 24 GHz ISM frequency band

 High performance 1T2R antenna

 Accurate target positioning and tracking

 MAX sensing distance is 8m

 The range resolution is 0.75m, the ranging accuracy is 0.15m

 Detection range azimuth Angle ±60°, pitch Angle ±30°

 Wall mounting

 Provides a visual tool to configure the tracking detection range, data reporting interval, and

target retention time

 Ultra-small module size: 15*44mm

 Automatically loads default configuration, plug and play

 Support UART, you can use the serial port to realize radar intelligent parameter adjustment,

convenient and fast

 5V single power supply

 Typical application scenarios:

 Smart home

 Smart business

 Bathroom

 Smart lighting

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 5 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

2. Main parameters

Table 1 Main parameters

Model

Package

Size

Rd-03D

Standard 1*4P-1.25mm socket connector

15.0*44.0(±0.2)mm

Antenna

on-board PCB antenna

Frequency

24G ~24.25GHz

Working temperature

-40℃ ~ 85℃

Storage temperature

-40℃ ~ 125℃, < 90%RH

Power supply

Support voltage 5V, supply current ≥200mA

Interface

UART

UART rate

Default 256000 bps

2.1. Static electricity requirement

Rd-03D is an electrostatic sensitive device. Therefore, you need to take special precautions

when carrying it.

Figure 2 ESD preventive measures

2.2. Electrical characteristics

Table 2 Electrical characteristics table

Parameters

Condition

Voltage Supply

I/O

VIL

VIH

VOL

VOH

VDD

VDD

VDD

VDD

VDD

Min.

-

-0.3

0.7*VDD

-

2.7

Typical value

Max.

Unit

5

-

-

-

-

-

0.3*VDD

VDD+0.3

0.33

-

V

V

V

V

V

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 6 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

2.3. Radar sensing range

Table 3 Radar sensing range

Installation Method

Installation wall mount

Min.

-

Typical
value
8

Max.

-

Unit

m

Note:

 The above induction distance is based on Ai-Thinker open field measurement, for

reference only

 The radar sensing distance is greatly affected by surrounding walls, ceilings, large-size
objects, and installation methods. The specific data in the installation environment

shall prevail

2.4. Power

The following power consumption data is based on a 5V power supply and an ambient
temperature of 25°C.

Table 4 Power consumption

Mode

Working status

Min.

-

AVG

92

Max.

-

Unit

mA

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 7 of 19

3. Appearance size

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Front

Back

Figure 3 Appearance diagram (rendering diagram is for reference only, subject to the
actual object）

Front

Back

Figure 4 Size chart

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 8 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

4. Pin definition

Rd-03D module is connected with four pins, such as the pin diagram, and the pin function

definition table is the interface definition.

Back

Figure 5 Pin diagram

Table 5 Definition table of pin functions

No.

Name

Function

1

2

3

4

5V

Input power

GND

Ground

TX

RX

UART_TX

UART_RX

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 9 of 19

5. Schematic diagram

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Figure 6 Schematic diagram

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 10 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

6. Design guidance

6.1. Application guide circuit

Figure 7 Application guide circuit

6.2. Recommended PCB package size

Rd-03D module uses standard socket interfaces with 1*4P-1.25mm spacing.

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 11 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

7. Precautions for radar installation

 In motherboard installation position, it is recommended that the following several ways:

 As far as possible to ensure that the radar antenna is opposite to test area, and the

antenna around open without sunscreen.

 Ensure that the radar installation position is firm, stable, shaking will influence the

effect of detection of radar itself.

 Make sure there is no movement or vibration on the back of the radar. Due to the
penetrating nature of radar waves, the back lobe of the antenna signal may detect

moving objects on the back of the radar. A metal shield or metal backplane can be

used to shield the radar back lobe to reduce the impact of objects on the back of the

radar.

 The range accuracy of the target will fluctuate due to the different size, state, RCS, etc.;

And the farthest distances fluctuate slightly.

 If there are multiple radars in the 24GHz band, do not beam correctly and install them

as far away as possible to avoid possible mutual interference.

 To meet the performance of the onboard antenna, do not place metal parts around the

antenna, far away from high-frequency devices.

 The power input voltage range is 5V, and the power ripple is required to be controlled

within 100mV. Users need to consider the corresponding ESD and lightning surge EMC

design.

7.1. Installation environment requirements

This product needs to be installed in a suitable environment, if used in the following

environments, the detection effect will be affected:

 There are non-human objects in continuous motion in the sensing area, such as animals,

curtains that continue to swing, and large green plants facing the air outlet.

 There is a large area of strong reflectors in the sensing area, which will cause interference

to the radar antenna.

 When mounting the wall, it is necessary to consider the external interference factors such

as air conditioning and electric fans at the top of the room.

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 12 of 19

7.2. Installation mode and induction range

 Hanging roof installation

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Figure 8 Wall mounting diagram

（a）

（b）

Figure 9 Schematic diagram of detection range of hanging wall

Note: It is recommended that the radar installation azimuth is shown in Figure 10 (a) or (b),
positive and negative directions are azimuth angles, up and down directions are pitch angles,
and the radar antenna plane normal direction is 0°.

 Detection range Azimuth Angle ±60°, pitch Angle ±30°, the maximum

detection distance in the normal direction is 8m

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 13 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Figure 10 Schematic diagram of tracking range of wall mounting

7.3. Power Supply

 Recommended 5V voltage, peak current above 200mA.

 LDO power supply is recommended; If DC-DC is used, it is recommended to control the

ripple within 100mV.

 DC-DC power supply circuit It is recommended to reserve a dynamic response capacitor to

optimize output ripple when the load changes greatly.

 ESD devices are recommended for the 5V power port.

Figure 11 DC-DC buck circuit diagram

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 14 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

7.4. GPIO

 Some IO ports are drawn from the periphery of the module. If necessary, it is

recommended to use 10-100Ω in series resistance on the IO port. This suppresses

overshoot and makes both sides smoother. Helps with both EMI and ESD.

 For pulling up and down special IO ports, see the usage instructions in the specifications.

This affects the startup configuration of the module.

 The IO port of the module is 3.3V. If the level of the master control does not match that of

the IO port of the module, a level conversion circuit needs to be added.

 If the IO port is directly connected to the peripheral interface or a pin bar terminal, reserve

an ESD device near the IO port cable to the terminal.

Figure 12 Level switching circuit

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 15 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

8. Storage conditions

Products sealed in moisture-proof bags should be stored in a non-condensing atmospheric
environment of <40℃ /90%RH.

The module has a moisture sensitivity level MSL of level 3.

After the vacuum bag is unsealed, it must be used within 168 hours at 25±5℃/60%RH,
otherwise it needs to be baked before it can be put on line again.

9. Reflow welding curve diagram

Figure 13 Reflow welding diagram

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 16 of 19

10.Product package information

Rd-03D module adopts braid packaging, 500pcs/reel. As shown in the picture below:

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Figure 14 Packaging braid diagram

11.Contact us

Ai-Thinker official website

Official Forum

Develop DOCS

LinkedIn

Tmall shop

Taobao shop

Alibaba shop

Technical support Email: support@aithinker.com

Domestic business cooperation: sales@aithinker.com

Overseas business cooperation：overseas@aithinker.com

Company address: Room 403,408-410, Block C, Huafeng Smart Innovation Port, Gushu 2nd

Road, Xixiang, Baoan District, Shenzhen.

Tel: 0755-29162996

WeChat mini

WeChat official

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 17 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Disclaimer and copyright notice

The information in this article, including the URL address for reference, is subject to change

without notice.

The document is provided "as is" without any guarantee responsibility, including any guarantee

for merchantability, suitability for a specific purpose, or non-infringement, and any guarantee

mentioned elsewhere in any proposal, specification or sample. This document does not bear

any responsibility, including the responsibility for infringement of any patent rights arising

from the use of the information in this document. This document does not grant any license for

the use of intellectual property rights in estoppel or other ways, whether express or implied.

The test data obtained in the article are all obtained from Ai-Thinker's laboratory tests, and the

actual results may vary slightly.

All brand names, trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned in this article are the

property of their respective owners, and it is hereby declared.

The final interpretation right belongs to Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd.

Notice

Due to product version upgrades or other reasons, the contents of this manual may be changed.

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd. reserves the right to modify the contents of this

manual without any notice or prompt.

This manual is only used as a guide. Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd. makes every

effort to provide accurate information in this manual. However, Shenzhen Ai-Thinker

Technology Co., Ltd. does not guarantee that the contents of the manual are completely free of

errors. All statements and information in this manual. And the suggestion does not constitute
any express or implied guarantee.

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 18 of 19

Rd-03D Specification V1.0.0

Statement

Ai-Thinker may provide technical and reliability data (including data sheets), design resources

(including reference designs), application or other design recommendations, network tools,

safety information and other resources (the "Resources") "as is" without warranties of any kind,

express or implied. Including, but not limited to, express or implied warranties of suitability,

fitness for a particular use, or non-infringement of any third party's intellectual property

rights.And specifically declares that it is not liable for any necessary or incidental losses,

including but not limited to, arising from the application or the use of any of our products and
circuits.

Ai-Thinker reserves the right to release information in this document (including but not limited

to metrics and product descriptions) and any changes to our products without prior notice. This

document automatically supersedes and replaces all information provided in previous versions

of the same document number file.

These resources are available to skilled developers who design with Ai-Thinker products. You

are solely responsible for: (1) Selecting the appropriate Ai-Thinker products for your

application; (2) Design, validate, and run your application and product throughout its life cycle;

(3) Ensure that your application meets all applicable standards, codes and laws, as well as any

other functional security, information security, regulatory or other requirements.

Ai-Thinker may authorize you to use these resources only for the development of applications

of Essence Products described in this Resource. Without the permission of Ai-Thinker, any unit

or individual shall not extract or copy part or all of these resources, and shall not be transmitted

in any form. You are not entitled to use any other Ai-Thinker intellectual property rights or any

third party intellectual property rights. You shall indemnify you in full for any claims, damages,

costs, losses and liabilities arising against Ai-Thinkeror its representatives in connection with

the use of these resources, for which Ai-Thinker is not liable.

The products offered by Ai-Thinker are subject to the terms of sale of Ai-Thinker or other

applicable terms attached to Essence's products. Essence's availability of these resources does

not extend or otherwise change the warranties or warranties disclaimers applicable to product

releases.

Copyright © 2023

Shenzhen Ai-Thinker Technology Co., Ltd All Rights Reserved

Page 19 of 19


